Update specs with batching and lack of vote extensions (#393)
anoma/namada: documentation/specs/src/interoperability/ethereum-bridge/proofs.md

# Proofs

A proof for the bridge is a quorum of signatures by a valid validator set
attached to a message understandable to the Ethereum smart contracts. For
transferring value to Ethereum, a proof is a signed Merkle tree root and

> inclusion proofs of assert transfer messages understandable to the Ethereum

Author: Yep, should say asset, not assert.

> smart contractions, as described in the section on 

Author: A quorum is by definition >2/3 by stake. I got tired of writing >2/3 stake all the time, so I switched to quorum

[batching](transfers_to_ethereum.md/#batching)

A message for transferring value to Ethereum is a `TransferToNamada` 
instance as described 
[here](./transfers_to_ethereum.md/#bridge-pool-validity-predicate).

Additionally, when the validator set changes, the smart contracts on
Ethereum must be updated so that it can continue to recognize valid proofs.
Since the Ethereum smart contract should  accept any header signed by bridge
header signed by 2 / 3 of the staking validators, it needs up-to-date
knowledge of:
- The current validators' public keys
- The current stake of each validator

This means the at the end of every Namada epoch, a special transaction must be
sent to the Ethereum smart contracts detailing the new public keys and stake
of the new validator set. This message must also be signed by at least 2 / 3
of the current validators as a "transfer of power".

If vote extensions are available, this signed data can be constructed
using them. Otherwise, validators must send protocol txs to be included on
the ledger. Once a quorum exist on chain, they can be aggregated into a

> single message that can be relayed to Ethereum. Signing an

Author: Absolutely. If the block relayer doesn't do their job, there is no reason to halt the chain. So anyone should be able to do it.

> single message that can be relayed to Ethereum. Signing an

Reviewer: We should still halt the chain if a `ValidatorSetUpdate` event is not received by the end of the epoch i.e. it's not confirmed on Namada that the transfer of power was completed successfully. Or rather we should not transition to the next epoch until that happens. Unsure still a bit about this

invalid  validator transition set will be considered a slashable offense.

Due to asynchronicity concerns, this message should be submitted well in
advance of the actual epoch change, perhaps even at the beginning of each

> new epoch. Bridge headers to ethereum should include the current Namada epoch

Author: Agreed

> so that the smart contract knows how to verify the headers. In short, there

Author: Will clarify.

> so that the smart contract knows how to verify the headers. In short, there

Reviewer: How come we use the term "headers"? At least in my mind I associate it with the old design and block headers which we are not using. What about just "message"?

is a pipelining mechanism in the smart contract.

Such a message is not prompted by any user transaction and thus will have
to be carried out by a _bridge relayer_. Once the transfer of power
message is on chain, any time afterwards a Namada bridge process may take
it to craft the appropriate message to the Ethereum smart contracts.

The details on bridge relayers are below in the corresponding section.

> Signing incorrect headers is considered a slashable offense. Anyone witnessing
> an incorrect header that is signed may submit a complaint (a type of transaction)
> to initiate slashing of the validator who made the signature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Signing incorrect validator sets is considered a slashable offense. Anyone witnessing
an incorrect validator set that is signed may submit a complaint (a type of transaction)
to initiate slashing of the validator who made the signature.
```

Author: It's not just validator set updates. It is also just normal transfers.

Reviewer: Sorry should have been clearer here, it's the term "header" I thought we should change (thought it was a holdover usage from an older version of the spec)

## Namada Bridge Relayers

Validator changes must be turned into a message that can be communicated to
smart contracts on Ethereum. These smart contracts need this information
to verify proofs of actions taken on Namada.

Since this is protocol level information, it is not user prompted and thus
should not be the responsibility of any user to submit such a transaction.
However, any user may choose to submit this transaction anyway.

This necessitates a Namada node whose job it is to submit these transactions on

> Ethereum at the conclusion of each Namada epoch. This node is called the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ethereum by the conclusion of each Namada epoch. This node is called the
```

# Proofs

A proof for the bridge is a quorum of signatures by a valid validator set

> attached to a message understandable to the Ethereum smart contracts. For

Reviewer 2: question: do proofs only include >2/3 of the voting power worth of signatures, or do they require a signature from every validator in the set?

The details on bridge relayers are below in the corresponding section.

Signing incorrect headers is considered a slashable offense. Anyone witnessing
an incorrect header that is signed may submit a complaint (a type of transaction)
to initiate slashing of the validator who made the signature.

## Namada Bridge Relayers

Validator changes must be turned into a message that can be communicated to
smart contracts on Ethereum. These smart contracts need this information
to verify proofs of actions taken on Namada.

Since this is protocol level information, it is not user prompted and thus
should not be the responsibility of any user to submit such a transaction.
However, any user may choose to submit this transaction anyway.

This necessitates a Namada node whose job it is to submit these transactions on
Ethereum at the conclusion of each Namada epoch. This node is called the
__bridge relayer__. In theory, since this message is publicly available
on the blockchain, anyone can submit this transaction, but only the
bridge relayer will be directly compensated by Namada.

All Namada validators will have an option to serve as bridge relayer and

> the Namada ledger will include a process that does the relaying. Since all

Reviewer 2: we can probably do the relaying with a tokio task. there's already a smart contract call stub in `eth-bridge-integration` I think

Namada validators are running Ethereum full nodes, they can monitor
that the message was relayed correctly by the bridge relayer.

During the `FinalizeBlock` call in the ledger, if the transfer of power
message is placed on chain, a flag should be set alerting the next block  
proposer that they are the bridge relayer for this epoch.

> If the Ethereum event spawned by relaying their  message gets accepted by the

Reviewer 2: extra space between `their` and `message`

Signing incorrect headers is considered a slashable offense. Anyone witnessing
an incorrect header that is signed may submit a complaint (a type of transaction)
to initiate slashing of the validator who made the signature.

## Namada Bridge Relayers

Validator changes must be turned into a message that can be communicated to
smart contracts on Ethereum. These smart contracts need this information
to verify proofs of actions taken on Namada.

Since this is protocol level information, it is not user prompted and thus
should not be the responsibility of any user to submit such a transaction.
However, any user may choose to submit this transaction anyway.

This necessitates a Namada node whose job it is to submit these transactions on
Ethereum by the conclusion of each Namada epoch. This node is called the
__bridge relayer__. In theory, since this message is publicly available
on the blockchain, anyone can submit this transaction, but only the
bridge relayer will be directly compensated by Namada.

The bridge relayer will be chosen to be the proposer of the first block of the 
new epoch. Anyone else may relay this message, but must pay for the fees out of

> their own pocket.

Reviewer: How about letting a block proposer choose whether they want to be the bridge relayer by injecting a transfer of power message into their block? (https://github.com/anoma/namada/pull/393#issuecomment-1232809428 - "Submission of the transfer of power message onto Namada chain").

We should add more details of how/when the transfer of power message is submitted on chain to Namada and who actually submits it. e.g. maybe anyone can craft this transfer of power message and submit it on chain as a normal transaction, or maybe it needs to be a validator or the block proposer. It should happen asap after there are enough signatures on chain of the next epoch's validator set.

Author: The problem is that whoever does it gets paid. So the protocol should specify who gets paid, otherwise we incentivize other validators to reject valid proposals to get funds for themselves.

Author: The latter part is easy, there is just a scattered bunch of protocol txs on chain with a `Signed<ValidatSet>` struct inside. Someone just collects all those together and submits to ethereum. I can add some struct defs. The when is as soon as possible, but it is impossible to enforce a timeline.

Reviewer: Validators shouldn't reject valid blocks (including ones that have a valid transfer of power message injected by the block proposer), if they do so they should be slashed. As a more general issue, I think validators should have to provide a signed rejection of a block proposal that could later be submitted as evidence, but I'm guessing we don't have anything like this implemented yet. 

If we go with the bridge relayer being designated as the first block proposer of an epoch, I guess they should be naturally incentivized to submit the transfer of power message on chain as soon as it is possible. We should add details to the spec of what this transfer of power will look like

Author: Adding slashing would fix the problem, it's just a lot more engineering effort. So I'm more inclined to have the protocol specify who gets paid.

Reviewer: > The latter part is easy, there is just a scattered bunch of protocol txs on chain with a `Signed<ValidatSet>` struct inside. Someone just collects all those together and submits to ethereum. I can add some struct defs. The when is as soon as possible, but it is impossible to enforce a timeline.

(submitted my last comment before seeing this)

I might be misunderstanding the spec, can the transfer of power be crafted offchain arbitrarily and submitted, without first being submitted onto Namada?

Author: Yes, I will clarify this.

Reviewer: ok, that was a big misunderstanding on my part, I've been reading this part of the spec as if there was this step where we submit a transfer of power message onto Namada first
